Troops welfare: Army to review fees in command schools

The Nigerian Army has commenced the process of downward review of school fees paid in Command schools as part of measures to boost the morale of its personnel.

The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai made the statement on Friday while addressing troops during operational visit to the Depot of the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Military School in Zaria.

He said that he was awaiting a report on the assessment of command schools across the country but assured that downward review of fees was inevitable.

“Though I am waiting to receive a report on the matter, a decision has been taken to reduce school fees in command schools across the country.

“I assure you before the resumption of school next session the reviewed fees would have been determined and announced.

“We are also working on improving facilities in the schools in line with our programme on improving your welfare and the wellbeing of your families,” he added.

Buratai said that the agenda of the current administration to entrench professionalism in the Armed Forces was anchored on improving the welfare of troops.

He assured the troops that upgrading offices and residential accommodation in Army barracks would be given priority attention by the administration.

The Army chief said that the Army was upgrading training facilities in its institutions as part of efforts to entrench professionalism and regimentation within its ranks.

He urged instructors and other staff of the two institutions to uphold and instill the virtues necessary for the development of a disciplined army.

He said: “this place is the beginning of building a professionally responsible Army; it is also the beginning of a disciplined Army.

“Therefore, you have important role to play in actualising the present administration’s vision for the Army.

“You have this set of recruits to train, you must teach the right things because we will not tolerate any act of indiscipline when they leave here.

“We will give the necessary support to achieve the task you have been given, we will look into increasing your allowances and continue to upgrade training facilities here.”

Buratai told the troops that the Army sports week would be held later in the year as part of plans to revive sporting activities in the Army.

The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Commandant of the Depot, Nigerian Army, Brig.-Gen. Christopher Musa conducted Buratai round ongoing rehabilitation works at the depot.

The projects inspected by the Army chief include renovation work on accommodation for recruits, cafeteria as well as other renovation works inside the barracks and the Nigerian Military School.

The Army chief also paid a visit to the palace of the Emir of Zauzau, Alhaji. Shehu Idris.
