Major shake-up in Nigerian Army, 334 top officers redeployed

The Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, has approved the redeployment and appointment of 334 officers to various units across Nigeria.

The officers appointed include some Principal Staff Officers at Defence and Army Headquarters, Corps Commanders and General Officers Commanding as well as other commanders, army spokesperson, Sani Usman, said.

Some of the senior officers appointed include 37 Major Generals, 57 Brigadier Generals, 128 Colonels and several Lieutenants Colonels among many others.

Some affected commands are the General Officers Commanding 1, 2, 3, 81 and 82 Divisions, Operations Pulo Shield and Safe Haven of Niger Delta and Plateau States respectively.

Among these principal officers, Major General MA Koleoso was appointed Commander TRADOC; Major General SN Muazu was moved from 2 Division to Headquarters, Infantry Corps and appointed Commander; Major General MT Ibrahim moved from Department of Army Standard and Evaluation to Nigerian Defence Academy as Commandant.

Also, Major General LKJ Ogunewe is now the Chief of Policy and Plans, Major General FO Alli, is now Chief of Training and Operations and Major General AA Salihu, Chief of Logistics.

Others are Major General AG Okunola now Commander of Operation PULO SHIELD (JTF) and Major General TC Ude, Commander, OPERATIONS SAFE HAVEN (STF Jos).

Major General LW Wiwa is now Deputy Commandant of Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre while Major General A Oyebade is now the General Officer Commanding 1 Division.

Major General LC Ilo, is now General Officer Commanding 2 Division; Major General H Umaru, General Officer Commanding 3 Division; Major General IH Edet, General Officer Commanding 81 Division and Brigadier General Ibrahim Attahiru is now Acting General Officer Commanding, 82 Division.

Brigadier General AT Hamman is now the Acting Provost Marshal; Brigadier General LF Abdullahi, Acting Commander, Nigerian Army Education Corps while Colonel R Abubakar is Acting Director, Defence Information amongst others.
