Chief of Army Staff vows military will end insurgency

The Chief of Army Staff (CAOS), Lt.-Gen. Kenneth Minimah, on Thursday in Lagos said the Nigerian Army would not relent until it brought insurgency to an end in the country.

Minimah gave Nigerians the assurance at the inauguration of the newly refurbished 81 Division Officers’ Mess built by the General Officer Commanding, Maj.-Gen. Tamunomeibi Dibi.

“Never again will Nigeria walk this path where insurgency and terrorism will come to redefine our unity as a nation and bring the Nigerian Army to a low level of concern to its own.

“We will continue to push in major operations in the fight against insurgency to a close. It is achievable and we are working towards that.

“It is our wish that we find them (Chibok girls). It’s just in one of the camps that were destroyed that we found that number of Nigerians.

“I am sure that as we edge further into the forest, we will begin to capture more camps,’’ he said.

“We pray that we rescue more people. Every Nigerian looks forward to this.

“Let me commend the efforts of our gallant officers and soldiers who continue to make enormous sacrifices to ensure that Nigeria remains a safe, united and stable.

“I wish to reassure all Nigerians that the Nigerian Army will continue to do what is in the interest of the nation in pursuance of our constitutional roles.

“We will always rise to the occasion wherever and whenever duty calls. We will not fail Nigeria and Nigerians.’’

Minimah expressed profound thanks to President Goodluck Jonathan for his unwavering support for the Nigerian Army.

He noted that Jonathan had in various ways, particularly his morale boosting visits to the North-East operational theatre demonstrated unique leadership and solidarity.

Also speaking, the GOC, 81 Division, Dibi, said the mess was built through direct labour under the supervision of 45 division engineers.

“Greater part of the resources used in executing the project was initially generated internally and with support from friends of the division.

“Along the line, the COAS visited the mess under reconstruction and was impressed with the efforts put in place and the progress made,’’ he said.

The Flag Officer Commanding, Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Jonathan Ango, senior army offcers and the police graced the inauguration.
