Emergency Rule: Economic Activities Grounded In 3 States

The military yesterday deployed more troops to Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states and some neighbouring states and kept vigil on towns and villages and patrolled streets primarily to scare away terrorists.

As a result, economic activities have been grounded in the three states as banks, markets, schools and other public institutions have been shut down in most of the cities and towns especially in Yobe.

Many stayed indoors, watching the unfolding scenario with fear of the unknown. Soldiers patrolling the streets were armed to the teeth and people were scared of them. Many towns have become a ghost of their former selves.

President Goodluck Jonathan had, on Tuesday, declared a state of emergency in the three states with a mandate to the military to put an end to the menace of the Boko Haram sect once and for all. Barely 24 hours after, the chief of defence staff, Admiral Ola Saa’ad Ibrahim, ordered troops’ movements to the affected states from 1 Mechanized Division, Kaduna, 82 Battalion, Jos, and other brigade commands in the neighbouring states.

But a top military source confided in LEADERSHIP that troops are operated under the Joint Task Force commanders in those states. “Our troops have declared total war against the terrorists. We will force some them out of their hideouts. We will restore peace to those states; we won’t fail. Enough is enough,” the source said.

They were said to have been given the mandate to cordon off any house where arms and ammunition are being kept for the terrorists. Intelligence gathering is also ongoing with a view to exposing those that were collaborating with the terrorists.

“We are aware that these people have collaborators who give them information and those who hide them whenever our troops are going after them, but this time round, whoever stands on the way of our troops will regret it. We will never treat them with kid gloves,” the source added.

LEADERSHIP further gathered that the troops have invaded thick forests in Sambisa, Borno State, an area that is notorious for being the training ground for the terrorists. Military sources reportedly claimed that the troops have attacked the area and dislodged the sect members who fled under heavy military onslaught.

The reports further said that there was yet to be any serious offensive mounted by the sect, stressing that the Nigerian Army is backed by the Nigerian Air Force in the operations.

The source also said that soldiers are hunting down members of the Boko Haram sect in all their identified bases in Gashua, Yobe State. Banks and other public and government businesses have been instructed to suspend their operations.

A dusk-to-dawn curfew (between 6pm and 6am) has been imposed on Yola, Adamawa State, as part of the crackdown against Boko Haram. Security sources claimed that two other states might follow suit.

It was also gathered that mobile phone services was cut off as fighter jets streaked through the skies in Yola, the Adamawa State capital.

Nyako faults emergency rule, says Adamawa is the most peaceful of the north-eastern states

Adamawa State governor Murtala Nyako has questioned President Goodluck Jonathan’s decision to declare a state of emergency in the state.

The governor stated this in a broadcast to residents of the state yesterday.
In the broadcast, which was Nyako’s first official reaction to the declaration, he wondered why Adamawa, which, he said, has been declared the most peaceful state among the six states in the north-east region was included.

But he pledged support to the emergency rule declaration. He urged residents of the state to remain calm and prayerful during this emergency rule period, and tasked parents to keep an on eye on their wards, stressing that women and youth suffer most during a state of emergency.

US cautions military

Meanwhile, the United States has cautioned the military against the use of hard force as the military operation begins against the terrorists.

According to reports, a spokesman from the US State Department has called on Nigeria to avoid being “heavy-handed” as it moves against the Islamist militants, saying the rights of civilians must be protected. Nigeria has deployed large numbers of troops to the country’s northeast to drive out Islamist militants.

“We call on Nigerian officials to ensure that Nigeria’s security forces protect civilians in any security response in a way that respects human rights and the rule of law,” said spokesman Patrick Ventrell, adding that Washington was watching how Nigeria handled the state of emergency.

“We have made clear to the Nigerian government that its heavy-handed response to insecurity in northern Nigeria and the failure to address human rights violations will potentially affect our ability to provide security assistance going forward,” Ventrell said.

A reporter from the news agency Reuters saw six trucks enter the capital of Adamawa State, Yola, while residents in Maiduguri, the capital of Borno State, reported an influx of troops.

Senate to debate emergency rule Tuesday
The Senate will, on Tuesday next week, begin debates and possible approval of President Goodluck Jonathan’s declaration of a state of emergency in three states: Adamawa, Borno and Yobe.

Senate president David Mark, at the commencement of yesterday’s Senate session, directed all senators to be present next Tuesday to enable the upper chamber form quorum to discuss what he tagged a “crucial” matter.

“This is to inform all distinguished senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that the plenary session of Tuesday, May 21, 2013 will consider matters of urgent national importance. All senators are, by this notice, requested to attend this crucial session of the Senate, at 10am prompt, please,” Mark stated in a terse statement.

Also, the Senate leader, Victor Ndoma-Egba, SAN, informed journalists that Jonathan was yet to communicate the emergency rule proclamation to the National Assembly as at yesterday (Thursday).

According to Ndoma-Egba interpreting Section 305 (6) (b) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the state of emergency was yet to take off because the president’s declaration was yet to be published in a gazette as required by the constitution.

Ndoma-Egba said: “It is not a nationwide broadcast by the president that proclaims a state of emergency. It is the instrument published in the gazette.

“The best we can make about what the president has done is that he has declared his intention to declare a state of emergency. That is what he has conveyed to Nigerians. That state of emergency will be actually declared when an instrument proclaiming it is published in a gazette.

“For now, no provision of the constitution has been breached and there is no constitutional crisis.

“So the two days’ deadline for the National Assembly to pass a resolution in support of the state of emergency starts running after the publication of the instrument in a gazette. So until the gazette is published, time does not begin to run; and there is nowhere in the constitution where the president is required to publish the gazette within a specific time. The constitution did not say that the president must publish the gazette within 24 hours, 48 hours or 72 hours. So whenever the resident publishes the gazette, then the two days or 10 days as applicable begins to run.”

Section 305(6)(b) reads: “A Proclamation issued by the President under this section shall cease to have effect if it affects the Federation or any part thereof and within two days when the National Assembly is in session, or within ten days when the National Assembly is not in session, after its publication, there is no resolution supported by two-thirds majority of all the members of each House of the National Assembly approving the Proclamation.”

Reps back Jonathan, say lawmakers were notified ahead of announcement
President Jonathan is yet to send the notification of the declaration of state of emergency in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States to the National Assembly, but the lawmakers have stated that the president has not breached section 305(60) of the constitution by not sending the proclamation to the House within 48 hours as the section also specifies “after gazetting”.

Making this disclosure yesterday, deputy chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon Afam Victor Ogene, (APGA, Anambra) said the decision to declare emergency rule in the affected states was reached after consultation between the leadership of the two Houses and President Jonathan.

Ogene said, “Up till now, the president has not sent a letter to us on the state of emergency declared in three states. We are aware that the president, before the declaration, interfaced with the leadership of the National Assembly.”

He added that, in their parley before the announcement, they also reached an agreement that democratic structures remain despite the emergency proclamation, hence the retaining of the governors.

“The leadership of the National Assembly did suggest that it will give a wrong message if the governors (of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe) were to go. And we all agreed that the government is one; while the NASS is there to make laws, the executive is there to implement them,” he said.

Cameroun offers to assist Nigeria

Cameroun has offered boost its cooperation and collaboration on trans-border security with Nigeria.
President Jonathan received this message from the Camerounian vice prime minister, Mr Ahmadou Ali, who brought a special message to the presidential villa from the president of that country, Paul Biya.

Biya’s special message included an invitation to attend a summit on security and maritime safety in the Gulf of Guinea to be hosted by Cameroun.

President Jonathan, who accepted the invitation, said current global security challenges make it imperative for countries to cooperate maximally in order to protect their citizens, adding that “as criminality and terrorism have risen globally, it is important for countries to cooperate maximally, in order to protect citizens”.

Briefing the Camerounian vice prime minister about the state of emergency he declared in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states this week, Jonathan assured the special envoy that Nigeria would work with her neighbours to ensure security in the sub-region.

He asked Ali to convey Nigeria’s appreciation to President Biya for the cooperation he has extended and the warm relations between the two countries.

Earlier, Mr Ali told President Jonathan that his country was already identifying members that would form part of the committee on trans-border security.

ACN cautions National Assembly over emergency rule

But the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) has urged the members of the National Assembly to carefully study the emergency rule imposed on Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states by President Goodluck Jonathan so they can see it for what it is - a sweetened bitter pill meant to hoodwink Nigerians.

‘’Members of the federal legislature, as the true representatives of the people, must decide - purely on the basis of facts rather than sentiments - whether or not the emergency rule is the best option to resolve the Boko Haram crisis,’’ the party said in a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday by its national publicity secretary, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. “Truly understanding the proclamation will enable them to make an informed decision when the issue is brought before them.”

It said that the emergency rule, which is essentially martial law, has castrated democracy in the affected states, even though the democratic structures have been left largely intact.

ACN said the Jonathan administration, realising the groundswell of opposition that will be triggered if the governors and the houses of Assembly members were sacked, decided to pull the wool over the eyes of unsuspecting Nigerians by leaving the elected officials in place even under the emergency rule.

‘’In practice, it was a monumental deception. First, the democratic structures left in place are of no use in a state under martial law. Secondly, the proclamation did not give a time frame, meaning that the emergency rule is open-ended and can last as long as the president wishes. After all, the emergency rule imposed on 15 local councils in four states was never lifted. Thirdly, now that the president has tested the waters and realised people could be so easily hoodwinked, what prevents him from extending the emergency rule to other states that catch his fancy?”

Troops must respect rule of engagement - NLC
Also, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has expressed support for emergency rule, but said that security personnel deployed to the affected states must abide by the rules of engagement.

The union said in view of reported seizures of territories, audacious attacks on sensitive targets, wiping out of communities, deadly cross-border attacks and other acts of mindless violence by insurgents, it considers the declaration of emergency as an appropriate response.

The NLC, in a statement signed by its national president, Comrade Abdulwaheed Omar, said: “We agree that the level of bloodletting and the co-ordinate and audacious cross-border attacks if not decisively checked are capable of overrunning, overwhelming and balkanizing the country.”

It said that, as a pan-Nigerian organisation which believes in the inalienability, inviolability and indivisibility of Nigeria, every action necessary should be taken to preserve its sovereignty against all acts of terrorism and insurgency.

“However, we must warn that the government must clearly understand and spell out the rules of engagement to which the troops and other security personnel must strictly adhere or be called to account. This is purely an internal security challenge, which if not initially mishandled requires more guile than brawn. It makes little sense for our troops to violate, alienate or annihilate the very populations they are out to protect.”

He stated further: “How government troops handle this sensitive assignment will determine the speed and quality of their victory as well as decide the ranking of Nigeria in the comity of nations. The tragic incidents at Baga and Bama which drew global condemnations are instructive enough.”
He stressed that although government has not dissolved the dem
