SOUTH EAST GOVERNORS EXTOL ARMY FOR MAKING REGION INVESTORS’ SAFE HAVEN

The Executive Governors of South East Zone have extolled the Nigerian Army for making the zone a safe haven for investors adding that the region is now conducive for business and other commercial activities to drive as a result of army collaboration and protection of lives and properties which had brought sanity, safety and security. The Governors made the statement recently in different forums while playing host to the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt Gen TY Buratai accompanied by the General Officer Commanding 82 Division Major General I Attahiru and other top army officers, who paid them a courtesy visit at their respective Government Houses. At the Governors lodge Amawabia, Awka, Anambra State, His Excellency, Chief Willie Obiano while welcoming COAS and his entourage, thanked them for visiting the state. He assured COAS of more cooperation with the military and expressed satisfaction with Army performances in the state as well as their collaboration and support to his administration. He also commended General Buratai for his exploits recorded in sanitizing troubled areas in the country. Gov Obiano informed COAS of the great support he receives from the army and their collaboration with other security agencies which had brought the protection of lives and property of the good people of the state.

Similarly, in Government House Enugu, Governor of Enugu State, His Excellency, Rt. Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi disclosed that he is indeed delighted to receive COAS in the State Government House and commended him for his continuing successes in the battle to overcome security challenges towards ensuring that the country remains safe and secure for all. Gov. Ugwuanyi assured the COAS of the State Government Commitment to adequately assist the army to successfully discharge its statutory duties to the people without hitches. In his words, “the army has indeed, remained a regular and dependable partner in our efforts to sustain the comparatively high level of security and peaceful environment in the state. In that respect, it shares in the credit for the state’s current standing as one of the safest in the country”. He acknowledged and appreciated the peaceful and cordial relationship that existed between the army and the Enugu state Government in the areas of Military Intelligence gathering as well as logistic support among many others. Gov Ugwuanyi reiterated that such assistance to the army would go a long way to put the officers at alert towards combating and enforcing its war against all manners of crimes and other social vices. In Owerri, the Imo State capital, the Executive Governor of the State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha while welcoming COAS and his entourage Commended General Buratai for the way he has been piloting the affairs of the Nigerian Army since he took over as the Chief of Army Staff adding that soldiers have dealt a deadly blow to the Boko Haram terrorists and that such feat would not have been possible without the doggedness of the Chief of Army Staff who stooped low to join the troops in the bush to fight the terrorists. Gov. Okorocha appealed to the Chief of Army Staff to send more operational vehicles and other logistic to 34 Artillery Brigade, Obinze, to enable the Operatives perform their duties in the state effectively. He urged COAS to give approval for the construction of a military school in the state, assuring that the state government would provide the land and other logistics needed for the actualization of the project.

Earlier the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai noted that he was on familiarization visit to 82 Division Areas of Operational Responsibility. He expressed appreciation to the governors for the support they gave army formations and units in their various states. He further said that the Nigerian Army would remain ever vigilant and committed to protect and preserve the integrity of the country including its citizenry and heartily thanked them for giving him audience. At various Military Units and formations, which include; 302 Artillery Regiment Onitsha, HQ 82 Div Enugu and 34 Artillery Brigade Obinze, the Chief of Army Staff urged troops to remain professional and responsive in the discharge of their duties, saying that if they observe the rules of engagement, there will not be any issues of Human Right Violation that would be recorded in the discharge of their constitutional duty. He assured troops that their challenges are being addressed especially the issue of accommodation among many others stressing that in no distant time; those challenges will be a thing of the past.  
