72 Generals Redeployed in Army Shake-up

As the Federal Government continues to tighten security around the country in the wake of challenges posed by terrorist groups and insurgency, the Nigerian Army Wednesday re-jigged its formations with the redeployment of 72 of its generals. Of the number, 29 are major generals while 43 are brigadier generals.

A statement by Col. Usman Abdul, on behalf of the Director, Army Public Relations, said the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 1 Division, Maj.-Gen. Joseph Shoboiki, has been moved to Defence Headquarters as Director of Policy (D Pol.), while former Director of Training at the Army Headquarters, Maj.-Gen. Garba Ayodele Wahab, becomes the GOC 1 Division.

The service also said in the statement that Maj.-Gen. J. O. Nwaogbo has been appointed the new GOC 3 Division, while Maj.-Gen. Sunday. O. Idoko leaves 82 Division, to become the Chief of Logistics (COLOG) at the Army Headquarters. Maj-Gen. O. O. Oshinowo, of the Special Task Force (STF), Jos, is now GOC 82 Division.

The Commander, Nigerian Army Corps of Artillery (NACA), Maj-Gen. Emmanuel Etim Bassey, was appointed Chief of Administration at Army Headquarters, while Maj-Gen. M. B. Ibrahim, formerly of Defence Headquarters, now commands the Special Task Force (STF) in Jos.

The statement added that Maj-Gen. A. T. Jibrin and Maj.-Gen. U. Buzugbe were confirmed as Director of Military Intelligence (DMI) and Military Secretary (Army), respectively.

The Director of Army Public Relations, Maj.-Gen. Raphael Ishaku Isa, is now the Provost Marshal of the Nigerian Army while the new Commander of the Nigerian Army Peace Keeping Centre (NAPKC), Jaji, is Maj-Gen. J. S. Zaruwa.
Maj.-Gen. A. S. Agha-Okoro, who until now, was at the Department of Army Training and Operations (DATOPS), at the Army Headquarters, is now the Director, Legal Services (DLS).

Other appointments include the Commander, 3 Brigade, Brig-Gen. I. I. Abbah; Commander, 31 Brigade, Brig-Gen. Ilouga; Commander; 21 Brigade, and Brig-Gen. R. O. Bamigboye, Chief of Staff, 81 Division.

Others are Brig-Gen. C. O. Okoro as the new Sector Commander/Nigerian Contingent Commander, United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL); and Brig-Gen. M. A. Koleoso who is now Sector Commander/Nigerian Contingent Commander for United Nations Mission in Dafur (UNAMID)
