Defence HQ Launch Skills Acquisition In Barracks

The Defence Headquarters,DHQ, today, at the 2 Amphibious Brigade Headquarters, Bori Camp Barracks, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Southsouth Nigeria, launched skills acquisition programme for 600 trainees drawn from the Army officers’ Wives Association, women and youths from the host Communities of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area.

The programme was declared open by Major General Azugaku Tsota Umuru, Director of Administration, Defence Headquarters, on behalf of the Chief of Defence Staff, Air Marshall Oluseyin Petinrin.

He said the main objective of the programme is to train wives of officers, men and members of the host communities.

He explained that the programme was actually initiated in 2008.

He advised participants to take the programme seriously as it could turn out to be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.

He said that training would run from March 7 to 18 with focus on ten key areas. They include: Catering (Fast food), Photography, Soap making, Hair making, Allied Agriculture, Information technology, Heat transfer and others.

The Chairman of Obio/Akpor local Government Council, Prince Paulinus Nsirim, at the occasion commended the Defence Headquarters for conceiving the programme that would have a positive impact on the lives of the people of his local government area.

He advised trainees to make use of the opportunity and pledged that the council would collaborate with the DHQ in any way it that would help actualise the aim of the programme.

Ken Ahukanna, managing Director of Hedgworth Pro-consult, the consulting company later told PMNEWS that the trainees were given a free hand to choose any of the skills they want to acquire.

He commended the enthusiasm of the trainees and appealed to them to be focused and attentive to their teachers and trainers so that they can acquire enough skills that would make them self-reliant and contribute to the welfare of their immediate families.

Meanwhile, the Chief of Army staff Lt. General Onyeabor Azubuike Ihejirika was anxiously being awaited by officers and men of the 2 Brigade Headquarters, Port Harcourt.

At the time of filing this report, he had left 343 Artillery Regiment and 5 Battalion, Elele Barracks in Ikwerre Local Council Area of the state.
