Military can tackle internal security challenges, says GOC

Jos – Maj.-Gen. Adamu Marwa, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 3 Armoured Division, has assured the nation that the Nigerian military is capable of tackling the current internal security challenges.

He said at the 3 Division Inter-Brigade Officers Combat Proficiency Competition on Monday in Jos that the military was also prepared to defend the country at all times.

“The 3 Division is doing everything possible to build a formidable army that is responsive to the internal security challenges currently confronting the country.

“It is important therefore that we must train, especially at this period, when we have challenges in terms of internal security operations. If we train them, they are better equipped to defend the nation.”

Marwa, represented by Air Commodore Davies Akpofure, Commander, 330 Nigerian Air Force Station, Jos, said the competition would improve the leadership qualities of Junior Commanders to meet future responsibilities.

He expressed the determination of the Nigerian Army to continue to cooperate with the civil authority in tackling internal security challenges in line with the constitutional provision.

The GOC urged the competing formations to take advantage of the competition to demonstrate their prowess and improve upon their 2010 performance.

“In any armed forces in any country, professional military education is a continuous process. There is the tactical level, operational level and the strategic level.

“The competition enhances the tactical level training for our junior commanders so that in a situation where they find themselves in battles, it will be easier for them to take command of forces.”

Marwa said the competition would enhance the quality of personnel to meet the desired constitutional objectives of the Nigerian Army.

Earlier, the 3 Division Garrison Commander, Brig.-Gen. Jatau Alexander, said the competition was a training exercise for young officers from Lieutenants to Major.

He said the competition would feature weapon handling, live shooting, obstacle crossing, combat swimming, map reading and radio communication.

Alexander advised the public to steer clear of the live shooting range in Miango, Jos, but urged them not to panic at the sight of large movement of troops around Jos.

The competing formations in the week-long competition are 21 Brigade, Maiduguri; 23 Brigade, Yola; 33 Artillery Brigade, Bauchi; and the 3 Division Garrison, Jos. (NAN)
